Challenge 4_ Crop Questions/Bliu/README.md, before:

# [Your Name] - [Challenge Name] Analysis

## Overview
Brief description of what you're analyzing and why it matters for Producers Direct and smallholder farmers.

## Research Questions
- Question 1: What specific question are you trying to answer?
- Question 2: What patterns are you looking for?
- Question 3: What insights do you hope to provide?

## Methodology

### Data Sources
- List the datasets you're using
- Note any external data sources (weather, agricultural calendars, etc.)
- Document any data preprocessing steps

### Approach
1. **Step 1**: Data loading and initial exploration
2. **Step 2**: Data cleaning and preprocessing
3. **Step 3**: Analysis techniques applied
4. **Step 4**: Visualization and interpretation
5. **Step 5**: Validation and testing

### Tools and Technologies
- **Programming Language**: Python 3.x / R
- **Key Libraries**: pandas, numpy, matplotlib, seaborn, scikit-learn, etc.
- **GenAI Tools Used**: ChatGPT, GitHub Copilot, etc. (be specific about what and how)
- **Other Tools**: Jupyter Notebook, Tableau, etc.

## Use of Generative AI

### Tools Used
- **ChatGPT**: Used for [specific purpose, e.g., "generating initial code structure for data loading"]
- **GitHub Copilot**: Used for [specific purpose, e.g., "autocompleting repetitive data cleaning code"]

### Human Review Process
- All AI-generated code was reviewed and tested for accuracy
- AI-generated insights were validated against the data
- Modified AI suggestions in the following ways: [list modifications]

### AI-Assisted vs. Human-Created
- **AI-Assisted**: [List which parts, e.g., "Initial data visualization code structure"]
- **Human-Created**: [List which parts, e.g., "All analysis logic, interpretation, and conclusions"]

## Key Findings

### Finding 1: [Title]
Description of the finding, supported by data and visualizations.

**Implications for Producers Direct:**
- How this finding can be used
- What actions it suggests

### Finding 2: [Title]
Description of the finding, supported by data and visualizations.

**Implications for Producers Direct:**
- How this finding can be used
- What actions it suggests

### Finding 3: [Title]
Description of the finding, supported by data and visualizations.

**Implications for Producers Direct:**
- How this finding can be used
- What actions it suggests

## Visualizations

### [Visualization 1 Title]
![Visualization 1](visualizations/viz1.png)

**Interpretation**: What this visualization shows and why it matters.

### [Visualization 2 Title]
![Visualization 2](visualizations/viz2.png)

**Interpretation**: What this visualization shows and why it matters.

## Limitations and Challenges

### Data Limitations
- Missing data issues
- Data quality concerns
- Sample size or coverage limitations

### Methodological Limitations
- Assumptions made
- Simplifications required
- Alternative approaches not explored

### Technical Challenges
- Computational constraints
- Translation accuracy issues
- Other technical hurdles

## Next Steps and Recommendations

### For Further Analysis
1. **Recommendation 1**: What could be explored next
2. **Recommendation 2**: How to deepen this analysis
3. **Recommendation 3**: Related questions to investigate

### For Producers Direct
1. **Action 1**: Specific recommendation for the organization
2. **Action 2**: How to use these insights
3. **Action 3**: What additional data or resources would help

## Files in This Contribution

```
your_name_analysis/
├── README.md (this file)
├── notebooks/
│   ├── 01_data_exploration.ipynb
│   ├── 02_data_cleaning.ipynb
│   └── 03_analysis.ipynb
├── scripts/
│   ├── data_loader.py
│   ├── preprocessing.py
│   └── visualization.py
├── visualizations/
│   ├── viz1.png
│   ├── viz2.png
│   └── viz3.png
├── results/
│   ├── summary_statistics.csv
│   └── findings.md
└── data/ (if applicable - only small derived datasets)
    └── processed_sample.csv
```

## How to Run This Analysis

### Prerequisites
```bash
pip install pandas numpy matplotlib seaborn jupyter
```

### Running the Analysis
```bash
# Navigate to the notebooks folder
cd notebooks/

# Start Jupyter Notebook
jupyter notebook

# Open and run notebooks in order:
# 1. 01_data_exploration.ipynb
# 2. 02_data_cleaning.ipynb
# 3. 03_analysis.ipynb
```

## References and Resources

### Academic Papers
- Author, A. (Year). Title. Journal.

### Datasets
- Dataset Name. Source. URL.

### Tools and Libraries
- Library Name. Version. URL.

## Contact and Collaboration

**Author**: [Your Name]
**GitHub**: @hwilner
**Slack**: @[your_slack_handle]

**Collaboration Welcome**: 
- Open to feedback and suggestions
- Happy to collaborate on related analyses
- Available to answer questions about this approach

## Acknowledgments

- Thanks to [other contributors] for [specific help]
- Built upon work by [other contributors] in [other challenges]
- Inspired by [specific approach or paper]

---

**Last Updated**: [Date]
**Status**: [In Progress / Complete / Needs Review]

Commit message:

Revise README for Challenge 4 - Crop Questions analysis
Updated README.md with specific details about the analysis, tools used, and findings related to Challenge 4 - Crop Questions.

Challenge 4_ Crop Questions/Bliu/README.md, after:

# [Beatrice Liu] - [Challenge 4 - Crop Questions] Analysis

## Overview
Created bi-, tri-, and quad-grams for English questions on:  cattle, tomato, maize, chickens, and no topic to discern most common questions; these can be used by Producers Direct to create FAQ for smallholder farmers.

## Research Questions
- Question 1: What specific question are you trying to answer?
- Question 2: What patterns are you looking for?
- Question 3: What insights do you hope to provide?

## Methodology

### Data Sources
- List the datasets you're using
- Note any external data sources (weather, agricultural calendars, etc.)
- Document any data preprocessing steps

### Approach /  Notebooks: Overview describes steps in greater detail
1. **Step 1**: Data loading and initial exploration
2. **Step 2**: Data cleaning and preprocessing
3. **Step 3**: Analysis techniques applied
4. **Step 4**: Visualization and interpretation
5. **Step 5**: Validation and testing
1.
6. 

### Tools and Technologies
- **Programming Language**: Python 3.13.5 
- **Key Libraries**: pandas, numpy, matplotlib, nltk, deep-language... - full list is in the notebooks
- **GenAI Tools Used**: ChatGPT, Anaconda Toolbox
- **Other Tools**: Jupyter Notebook

## Use of Generative AI

### Tools Used
- **ChatGPT**: Used for generating code for natural language processing functions in English, translating Swahili tokens into English
- **Anaconda Toolbox**: Used for generating interactive network graphs

### Human Review Process
- All AI-generated code was reviewed and tested for accuracy
- AI-generated insights were validated against the data
- Modified AI suggestions in the following ways: coding errors


## Key Findings

### Finding 1: [Translating from Swahili is a major roadblock]
Filtered Description of the finding, supported by data and visualizations.

**Implications for Producers Direct:**
- How this finding can be used
- What actions it suggests

### Finding 2: [Title]
Description of the finding, supported by data and visualizations.

**Implications for Producers Direct:**
- How this finding can be used
- What actions it suggests

### Finding 3: [Title]
Description of the finding, supported by data and visualizations.

**Implications for Producers Direct:**
- How this finding can be used
- What actions it suggests

## Visualizations

### [Visualization 1 Title]
![Visualization 1](visualizations/viz1.png)

**Interpretation**: What this visualization shows and why it matters.

### [Visualization 2 Title]
![Visualization 2](visualizations/viz2.png)

**Interpretation**: What this visualization shows and why it matters.

## Limitations and Challenges

### Data Limitations
- Missing data issues
- Data quality concerns
- Sample size or coverage limitations

### Methodological Limitations
- Assumptions made
- Simplifications required
- Alternative approaches not explored

### Technical Challenges
- Computational constraints
- Translation accuracy issues
- Other technical hurdles

## Next Steps and Recommendations

### For Further Analysis
1. **Recommendation 1**: What could be explored next
2. **Recommendation 2**: How to deepen this analysis
3. **Recommendation 3**: Related questions to investigate

### For Producers Direct
1. **Action 1**: Specific recommendation for the organization
2. **Action 2**: How to use these insights
3. **Action 3**: What additional data or resources would help

## Files in This Contribution

```
your_name_analysis/
├── README.md (this file)
├── notebooks/
│   ├── 01_data_exploration.ipynb
│   ├── 02_data_cleaning.ipynb
│   └── 03_analysis.ipynb
├── scripts/
│   ├── data_loader.py
│   ├── preprocessing.py
│   └── visualization.py
├── visualizations/
│   ├── viz1.png
│   ├── viz2.png
│   └── viz3.png
├── results/
│   ├── summary_statistics.csv
│   └── findings.md
└── data/ (if applicable - only small derived datasets)
    └── processed_sample.csv
```

## How to Run This Analysis

### Prerequisites
```bash
pip install pandas numpy matplotlib seaborn jupyter
```

### Running the Analysis
```bash
# Navigate to the notebooks folder
cd notebooks/

# Start Jupyter Notebook
jupyter notebook

# Open and run notebooks in order:
# 1. 01_data_exploration.ipynb
# 2. 02_data_cleaning.ipynb
# 3. 03_analysis.ipynb
```

## References and Resources

### Academic Papers
- Author, A. (Year). Title. Journal.

### Datasets
- Dataset Name. Source. URL.

### Tools and Libraries
- Library Name. Version. URL.

## Contact and Collaboration

**Author**: [Your Name]
**GitHub**: @hwilner
**Slack**: @[your_slack_handle]

**Collaboration Welcome**: 
- Open to feedback and suggestions
- Happy to collaborate on related analyses
- Available to answer questions about this approach

## Acknowledgments

- Thanks to [other contributors] for [specific help]
- Built upon work by [other contributors] in [other challenges]
- Inspired by [specific approach or paper]

---

**Last Updated**: [Date]
**Status**: [In Progress / Complete / Needs Review]
